Hi, everybody.
Welcome to session 422,
which actually we'd like to call
the HIV toolbox day or HIView day.
A lot of things have been
evolving inside Mac OS X,
and this week you've probably
learned a lot of these evolutions.
First, like you probably heard,
Quick Draw is being deprecated.
We talked about being ready
for resolution independence.
So what does that mean for you
as a Carbon and C/C++ developer?
What does that mean for
you as an HI Toolbox user?
Well, that means a couple of things.
And first,
that means that your code is going to
have to evolve as well to play great in
the next operating system of Mac OS X,
the next version of Mac OS X.
The good news is that we have a
lot of technologies that we're
going to be announcing this
week here in the HI Toolbox,
and a lot of things with
HIView that we've been doing
that should really help you.
And we have really packed sessions that
should really help you move forward.
We're going to start today with Guy,
who is our representative from France,
who's going to be actually talking
about switching to a Modern HI Toolbox,
and he's going to teach you really the
architecture of HIView and how you as
a developer can take advantage of it.
How you're going to get there and
all the features that you're going
to be able to take advantage of.
So I think it's a great first
step for you to understand the
foundations of where we're going here.
After that,
please don't miss the session that
we're going to have at 3:30 with Kurt,
Monsieur Kurt,
where actually we know that a
lot of you guys are still based,
have dialogues and Windows resources.
And so we're going to take a full
hour to kind of like give you a basis
and help you switch your resources
based user interfaces to Nib files.
And then we'll teach you as well
how to kind of like link them
together using Carbon events.
Very, very cool session.
I think you'll like it.
Now, getting ready for
resolution independence,
we're going to teach you tomorrow,
we're going to have a session
that's going to explain to you
how to switch your custom drawing
content and how to switch,
you know, like if you're using C-DEVs,
for instance, to use custom HIViews.
This is a very, very,
very important session.
If you have custom controls,
I really encourage you
to attend that session.
So you're probably thinking, well,
that means, you know,
I'm going to have like still to like,
you know, like rave some old code that
I have that has been working.
Yes, you're correct.
You're going to have to revise and like,
you know, move some code.
If you're using Quick Draw,
you're going to have to switch, you know,
to core graphics.
But what's very,
very important to understand
is that this is very,
very good for like our users
because your user interface and
your application is going to gain
in performance and in features.
And this is really where
we're moving towards.
So I think we'll be very pleased
with the work that we've been doing.
And let's start with Mr.
Guy, who's going to be taking you for
the next hour with like the new
things we'll be doing with HIView.
Mr.
Guy.
Thank you, Xavier.
So good afternoon.
I hope everybody had a great lunch.
Get ready for a very packed session.
Maybe my fast speech will
help me for once here.
Okay, so what I'm going to cover,
in essence,
is the meaning of HIView and how
that can help your applications.
And then I'm going to show you a
step-by-step example of how you can take
advantage of HIView in your application.
Then I'm going to have a section
on resolution independence.
It got mentioned at the
graphic sessions already,
but I'm going to show you the
Carbon story for resolution independence
and how you can start thinking
about that for your applications.
And finally, I'm going to go through a
potpourri of various new features
in the HIToolbox for Tiger.
So we use this word HIView a lot.
Xavier probably said it 15
times as he was talking there.
And a lot of people
wonder what HIView is.
I mean, I'm sure you've seen the typedef,
and then we say adopt HIView.
Does that mean I just
need to grab one view?
Well, no.
What HIView means when we say adopt
HIView is it means get on board with
everything we've been doing for the
last three or four years in the Toolbox.
HIView is this conglomeration of cool new
features we've been adding since Jaguar,
essentially.
So technically, HIView is our
object-oriented view system.
It's based off the Control Manager.
If you've seen the Control Manager and
you're familiar with it,
and I know most of you are,
HIView is also going to feel very,
very familiar.
It's so familiar and so similar, in fact,
that it's the same type ref-- type def.
A Control Ref is an HIView ref.
It's the exact same type.
They are literally type def
to one another in the header.
It means you can use HIView
refs in Control Manager APIs,
and you can use
Control refs in HIView APIs.
Now our object model is based, of course,
on HIObject.
We've talked about that in the past.
It's a very cool subclassing
mechanism for Carbon clients.
And we use Carbon Events as
the messaging model.
Now,
HIView also includes all the new widgets
we've added over the last few years,
like the search field and the
toolbar and things like that.
HIView also represents a much
more advanced drawing model
where you can take advantage of
all the cool quartz features.
And there's some other
side perks in there.
HIView gives you much better drawing
support in the sense that the
APIs now make sense when you use them,
and they don't do things
you're not exactly expecting,
and they don't force
you to take workarounds.
Now the reason you want to adopt
HIView is it's because what your
customers are asking for can
really only be granted by HIView.
HIView can give you all those
buzzwords like the library sizing,
quartz transparency,
various forms of animation.
Going to HIView is also the only way
to adopt certain new Toolbox features
we've added over the past couple years.
The Toolbar is one.
Our TextView and ScrollView,
which is our full-featured
text editing view in Carbon,
is another.
We've got an ImageView.
We have HIView layout mechanisms,
which are like springs
and rods on steroids.
And all that only works under HIView.
Now another reason you should
use HIView is it's just going
to make your apps faster,
right?
We did a lot of things
much more efficiently.
We learned from our mistakes in the
Control Manager and just made it better.
And the best thing about HIView is it
actually makes your jobs a lot easier.
The code you end up writing to do
something custom in your app is a
lot simpler when you use HIView to
implement it than if you have to
hand-roll it yourself the old way.
Some of you may be looking at your
applications these days and feeling like
it looks a little bit like this house.
It's kind of got a crummy lawn,
the paint's chipping here and there,
the windows are kind of ugly,
the roof's maybe got a couple leaks.
Well, one reason you might want to adopt
HIView is because it can allow
your house to look like this.
Put a little work into it,
give it some new paint,
clean up the lawn, clean up the yard,
and suddenly it looks a lot better.
But then there's another side perk:
that house isn't exactly the same
as it was in the other picture.
We've added some things, right?
There's a new fence there,
there's new windows.
In fact, one of the windows was
expanded a little bit.
So HIView is going to not just let
you polish up your application,
but it's going to let you
expand it and grow it.
So there's five basic
steps to adopting HIView,
or adopting all the
technologies in HIView.
So let's jump right into the first one.
That's using the standard
windows and controls.
This is something we say every year,
and we need to repeat it
because it bears repeating,
right?
There's a lot of good reasons to do it,
and we know some of you still need a
little bit of a push to keep adopting
the standard windows and controls.
So we've added a lot of new views
over the last few years that can
do basic things that your apps
used to have to do for themselves.
If you want a list view that interacts
a lot like Finder's list view,
go ahead and use the Data Browser.
In fact, Finder uses the Data Browser
to do its list view.
Like I mentioned before,
we have a TextView and a ScrollView that
together can be a full-featured text
editing engine for Carbon applications.
But you don't have to use the
ScrollView just with the TextView.
You can use it to scroll image
views or any other custom
view you might want to make.
So take a look at the controls we offer,
and take a look at your application and
find out what you were doing custom.
And see if now there's some parity
between what we offer and what you do,
and see if you can replace your custom
implementations with our new features.
Also, be sure to take advantage of view
embedding or control embedding.
This is something that
we've had a long time,
since Mac OS 8.0,
but we know a lot of people like to
use controls in a very flat hierarchy.
They have a window and they
have a bunch of controls in it,
and then they try to manage the
overlapping controls themselves and try
to manage the containment themselves.
Well, HIView can do all of that for you,
so you might as well use
the built-in infrastructure.
That's also going to give you a lot of
benefits with respect to accessibility.
An app that's been revved to use HIView
is going to be mostly accessible.
In addition,
going to HIView insulates you from future
interface changes that we might make.
The best example of this
is probably the tabs.
On Jaguar,
the tabs looked a lot different
than they started to on Panther and
continued to look on Tiger.
But there were a lot of applications
that rolled their own tabs.
And sure,
they used the appearance primitives
to try to get the standard look,
but because of how the appearance
needed to change in Panther,
those same primitives could
not draw the new look.
So people that did their custom tabs
on Jaguar and got a good Jaguar look,
unfortunately carry that
Jaguar look into the future,
into Panther and Tiger.
So that's just another great
reason to use our standard tabs.
If you use the standard tabs,
it's going to get the new looks
as we rev the user interface.
That's really the first step.
It's pretty straightforward, right?
But it's going to give
you a lot of good wins.
And most of you already know how to do
that and are already at least partway
through doing that in your application.
So that one should be pretty easy.
The next step, which is probably the
most time-consuming step,
let's say,
is taking your custom user interface
in your application and wrapping that
inside individual HIView objects.
The first step as part of that
process is to look at your interface
and factor your custom areas
into individual sub-components.
It's standard engineering
design methodology.
You want to make a view
around the simplest,
smallest thing possible in most cases.
If you do that,
it's going to be a lot easier
to write HIViews around those
individual small widgets,
and you'll be able to reuse
them in various places as well,
which is cool.
Then,
using our HIObject subclassing mechanism,
you create a subclass of HIView
to represent your custom object.
Then, when your custom object is
put in a view hierarchy,
it will receive Carbon events to
handle things like mouse clicks,
keyboard events,
all sorts of other user interaction,
accessibility, activations,
deactivations, all that stuff.
So you just handle those Carbon events,
do the right thing.
We have lots of HeaderDoc in
Carbonevents.h for all of the
Control and View related events.
You can look in there,
it tells you what you need to do,
what events you want to
handle for certain situations,
and it's really straightforward.
Then, if your view needs to
communicate state changes to
other parts of your application,
like let's say when a button is clicked,
right, you need to carry out some action
someplace else in your app.
You can use HI commands to do that.
We have convenient APIs to
send out HI commands.
In fact, the view system already has
built in support for HI commands.
You can associate a
command with a given view.
It'll automatically get sent
out when the view is clicked.
But if you have more complex
communications needs,
you can use custom Carbon events
to communicate between
different pieces of your app.
One good example of
this is our scroll view.
The scroll view is based on our
scroll view Carbon event protocol,
which is just a set of simple
Carbon events that it can use to
communicate with its scrollable canvas.
If you have similar needs
in your application,
there's no reason you can't use
Carbon events to implement them.
They're really flexible,
really full-featured.
You can put all sorts
of attributes in them.
You can queue them.
You can direct dispatch them.
And it's just--it's really powerful.
Then it bears repeating:
keep using view embedding.
You might get partway
through this step and say,
"Okay, well,
I wrap my custom content in some views,
but I'm still going to use
a flat hierarchy." Well,
I really recommend not doing that.
I really recommend using the
full embedding hierarchy,
because it's going to make
subsequent steps a lot easier.
Finally, we have a bit of sample
code called HIFramework.
It's on the developer website.
We have a bunch of sample
applications based on HIFramework.
And this is a C++ class library
that manages the kind of boring
details of HIobject subclassing
and the HIView mechanism.
You can just derive a
subclass from our TView class,
and it'll automatically set
up the HIobject subclass,
the event dispatcher, and all that.
Then you just override whatever
virtual methods you need to and do
whatever work you need to in those.
Now we're going to be covering some of
these steps in more detail because I just
don't have time to talk about them today.
So we're going to cover
them in two other sessions.
As Xavier mentioned,
session 421 immediately follows this,
and it talks about taking an old
style dialog or some old window code
and replacing it with a nib file,
and as part of that,
adopting HIView in the
process where you can.
And then tomorrow,
we have a session entirely on writing an
HIView from the ground up to represent
some custom area in your application.
So I strongly urge you to
attend these sessions to get
more details on this step.
So that's two of the five steps.
The next is adopting the
standard window handler.
This is probably the most fun step,
mainly because it gives you kind
of this cool bang for the buck.
It gives you this cool win.
Now the standard window handler has
been around for several releases,
and essentially what this is,
is it's a Carbon event handler that
can automatically be put on your
windows to do all the normal event
dispatching that you used to have to do
manually when you called waitnextevent.
So you no longer have
to call waitnextevent,
see if it's a mouse event,
call findwindow,
see if it's in your window
that you're interested in.
If so, call findcontrol,
route it to the control.
If it's not a control,
you know that whole rigamarole.
You don't have to do any of that if you
turn on the standard window handler.
So the standard window handler is
designed to work directly with HIView.
And what I mean by that is the
standard window handler only
knows how to deal with views.
It can route mouse events,
keyboard events, all that stuff to views.
But if you have completely custom
stuff in your window and it's
not represented by an HIView,
you have to jump through
hoops to make that work.
You have to install a bunch of
Carbon event handlers on your window
and deal with all that rigamarole.
So the right thing really to do
here is if you're going to use
the standard window handler,
use HIView.
They work together really, really well.
The standard window handler is also the
most important key to using the Toolbar.
The Toolbar essentially puts
a system-driven piece of code,
or a system-driven piece of
interface in your window.
And the only way that can receive events
is if you jump through some hoops to
find the right events to send to it,
or if you just use the
standard window handler.
You might as well use the
So, to get the standard window
handler for your window,
you need to do a few things.
In Interface Builder,
which is our preferred way
of creating your windows,
there's a checkbox in the
window inspector palette.
It says "Standard
Handler." Just check it,
the standard handler will automatically
be turned on for your windows.
But, if you need to programmatically
instantiate your windows,
there is an attribute,
the case "WindowStandardHandler"
attribute that you can
specify at creation time.
Once you've turned that on for a window,
the standard handler will
automatically be in effect.
As soon as your application runs,
it'll start servicing events,
which means you can go back into
your WaitNext event loop and rip out
all the code that had to deal with
routing events to that one window.
You can just get rid of it.
It's generally not necessary.
But the standard handler can't do some
sort of functional things on the window
that you're going to need to respond to.
For example,
when the Close box is clicked,
a window gets sent the
KEventWindowClose CarbonEvent.
And by default,
the window will tear down.
But if you need to save
changes or do something else,
you'll want to hook into that
CarbonEvent to handle it completely.
There's a bunch of other
Carbon events like this.
You can think of them as hooks.
They're not strictly necessary,
but they're good ways for you to hook
into the system's processing and provide
custom behavior where you need to.
CarbonEvents.h, again,
has lots of documentation in that header.
So I urge you to take a look at it,
see what sorts of other
hook events are in there,
and take advantage of whatever
makes sense for your application.
So that's step three.
Step four is probably the coolest
because it's the flashiest.
That's switching on compositing mode
and starting to draw with Quartz.
This is cool because it gives
you radically better performance,
and it just makes your life
a heck of a lot easier.
One of the ways we sped up the HIView
subsystem through compositing mode
is that we no longer draw a pixel
twice unless we absolutely have to.
And what I mean by that
is when a view draws,
we know whether or not it's opaque,
and we know what part of
it needs to be redrawn.
And so we make sure to just
redraw the parts of the views
that intersect that dirty area.
In addition,
now that we are not redrawing
right when you call various
APIs like set control value--.
Well, let's step back for a second.
So in the old control manager,
every time you called an
API like set control value,
the control redrew.
So if you did a typical setup
of a scroll bar where you call
set control value minimum,
maximum and maybe view size,
that's four redraws of the
scroll bar right there.
That's a big waste of performance.
HIV eliminates that.
Now instead of redrawing in those APIs,
we mark the appropriate areas
of the scroll bar as dirty
and needing redraw later.
And so sometime later,
right before you get
back into the event loop,
that view will automatically be redrawn.
The other cool thing compositing mode
does is eliminates the need to erase.
If you've ever written a custom CDEF,
you knew it was your responsibility
to call setup control background and
erase before your control actually drew.
Which meant that if you had a
complex view hierarchy of controls,
there was a lot of erasing
and redundant drawing of the
window background going on,
and that's just crummy.
So we eliminate that in HIView,
which speeds up the drawing pipeline.
Now, of course, compositing mode means
you can use Quartz really,
really easily, which gives you access to
all the cool Quartz features.
And additionally,
the compositing draw model is far
easier to write than the old draw model.
In the old draw model,
every time your control
received certain messages,
it was your responsibility to
execute your own draw code,
sometimes clipped
differently or who knows how.
Well, in the compositing mode,
you only draw at a very well-defined
time in the K event control draw event.
So suddenly your code is way simpler.
You just handle the draw event,
and in your other events,
you just handle your mouse tracking
or whatever else you need to,
and you don't need to worry about weird
cross-pollination of functionality.
So, let me give you a quick demo
of some of the cool things
Compositing Mode can do for you.
Okay, so to hammer home a point,
a lot of people made requests over
time for the ability to draw controls
on top of an arbitrary picture.
And this is how it would look if you
tried to do that in non-compositing mode.
The controls try to
erase behind themselves,
so they blow away whatever
picture was there.
And sure, there were workarounds, right?
You could hook into the
Quickdraw bottlenecks on your
port and try to patch things up,
but those even broke as our views in the
Toolbox started switching over to Quartz.
So this is what you ended up with,
which is pretty crummy.
Instead, with compositing mode,
you get something like this.
Obviously a lot nicer.
Now you can see the
controls are animating,
and some of them,
the disabled button up at the top left,
you can just barely tell that you
can see the picture through it,
because that button itself
is partially transparent.
In addition, the cloud and the sun
is somewhat transparent.
And as I resize,
you might actually be able
to see the background moving
underneath them and stuff.
So one thing that David did when
he wrote this app is he just put a
little bit of animation in there,
right?
So clearly not smoke and mirrors.
This stuff is clearly all live.
It's very fast.
It's very easy to use.
It works really intuitively.
One other thing I want to show
off with this application is
if you make this really small,
all those views are overlapping,
but they're all still properly Z-ordered,
and they all still draw
in the proper Z-order.
So you can see, you know,
various things going over
top of the stop button.
And, you know,
I can still click on things
when this is going on,
and tracking still works.
You know, I can track on -- oh,
hit testing is -- I'm getting
blocked by other views Z-ordered on
top of this one from hit testing.
There we go.
So now I'm actually tracking
in the -- the other button.
And that all just works.
It's very cool.
So not many other view systems
on this platform or otherwise
can do anything like this.
So here's a fun little app.
This is not something I'd
necessarily recommend you do,
but it might give you some idea of the
power of HIView and compositing mode.
So like I said before,
every view draws in a
very well-defined place,
the KEventControlDrawHandler.
And that handler is passed a
Core Graphics context reference
to do its drawing with,
and the view must do its
drawing with that context.
This means that anybody can
come along to your view,
intercept handling of the
KEventControlDrawHandler,
and manipulate the context a little
bit if it wants to for cool reasons.
So what Eric did is he overwrote the draw
handlers on a couple of these controls
and transformed the context to scale
up and down the various widgets here.
Now granted,
there's some artwork problems.
This is why I don't exactly
recommend that you do this technique.
But you can see from the scroll bar
in the checkbox that you actually
get kind of reasonable results.
So these are the kind of cool things
you can do with compositing mode.
So let me leave that open.
And fire up transparent windows.
OK.
So Ignignoct here wants to show
you just how cool it is to do
transparent windows on Carbon.
This is something we
get requests for a lot.
How do I do a splash screen with
transparency or something like that?
This is an example of how
you might achieve that.
This is an overlay window that inside
of it has a couple views embedded.
It has a view that's drawing
that image of the character from
"Aquatine Hunger Force." And there's
also a push button in that window,
and also this slider.
And they're all together
in the same window.
I can move it around.
It's got a shadow and everything.
And I did this just by creating a custom
HIView class to render that image,
and then put a couple other
controls in that window as well.
But that doesn't exactly meet the goal.
People want a transparent window.
So what I did is I wired up this
alpha slider to talk to the other
view and change its alpha value.
So I can do stuff like this.
And it's all live.
It all keeps working.
It's really easy to write
and it's really fast.
And it's all still a window.
In this button,
I put the standard minimize command.
So when I click it,
window goes away just like
you'd normally expect.
So this stuff is really
powerful and really,
really easy to use.
It only took me about an hour to write.
OK.
So I can go back to slides, please.
Okay, so to turn this on,
there's a few things you need to do,
and I want to cover this from
two different perspectives.
One is from an app's perspective,
as in they're going to be a
client of the HIView APIs.
The other is as a view's perspective,
and I'll cover the
view's perspective later.
So from an app's perspective,
what you need to do is go into
Interface Builder with your
window and turn on the compositing
mode checkbox for that window.
If you create it programmatically,
of course, we have the kWindowCompositing
attribute that you can set.
Once you've done that,
all drawing in that window
must be done with HIViews.
We will no longer send
update events to you.
You will not get update events for
that window out of WaitNext Event.
So any drawing that you're
expecting to do through
WaitNext Event isn't going to happen.
You've got to put
everything inside HIViews.
The other major change you need to worry
about is the notion of frame coordinates.
So if you think back
to the Control Manager,
when you want to position a button
at the bottom right-hand corner of
your window in the Control Manager,
you figured out the coordinate,
the top left coordinate for that button,
as if it were port relative.
You find out the quick
draw port for the window,
you find out the appropriate offset
from the top left of that port,
and you use that as
the button's top left.
It changes a little bit in
HIView mode and compositing mode.
Now you specify the button's top
left relative to its parent view.
So it's just a little change,
something we had to worry about
when we rev navigation services in
Panther to start using compositing mode,
but it's also something pretty
easy to get through your head.
You just do it a couple times and
suddenly it becomes intuitive.
Another change you need to make is
pretty much elimination of code.
In compositing mode,
don't call APIs that draw right away.
Don't call draw one control the
draw control in current port.
They just don't make sense.
Compositing mode is
all about invalidation,
deferring drawing until later.
So anytime you call draw one control,
you're defeating the purpose of HIView
and you're slowing your application down.
Auto embed control is another
API you want to avoid,
but that's mainly because it doesn't
make sense really in compositing mode.
It uses a different notion of
coordinates and it tries to figure
out heuristically what the right,
you know, And it tries to figure out
heuristically what the right,
you know,
what the proper parent view would be.
And it was really there for
dialogue manager compatibility.
So just avoid it.
Instead, use an API like HIView add
subview and figure out the parent.
You'll usually know what
the parent is anyway.
Just associate the child with the parent.
So there's also a few steps
from the views perspective,
and I want to cover them individually.
So the first thing you can do is
test to see whether compositing
mode is on for that window.
You don't have to do this, right?
Some people write HIViews just
to work in compositing mode.
In fact,
that's what I did in that last demo app.
I knew I was only going to
use it in compositing mode,
so it was really easy to write.
I didn't bother testing.
But if you're going to rev to compositing
mode over time in one window and
then another and another over a
couple of your application's releases,
you may find it useful to package
your custom content up in views
that can work in either compositing
mode or non-compositing mode.
So if you want, you can take a look at
the views owning window,
see whether the compositing
mode attribute is on,
and if so, you can behave one way in
compositing mode and another
way in non-compositing mode.
The next step is to make sure
you invalidate appropriately.
Don't draw on those state
changes like I was talking about.
We send out a handful of
Carbon events when appropriate state
changes occur in various views.
We tell you when a view
activates or deactivates,
when the highlight part changes,
when it enables or disables,
or when its value changes.
We also send out Carbon events
any time a view's bounds change,
so that you can make intelligent
decisions about invalidating exactly
the portions that need to update.
This is really useful for a list,
like Data Browser.
When Data Browser resizes,
it knows all the stuff in the
upper left-hand corner of itself
doesn't need to get redrawn.
So it'll just invalidate sort of the
L-shaped region that gets revealed,
and maybe a few other
bits here and there,
and just those areas get repainted.
So when you get one of
these notification APIs,
you just inform the HIView subsystem
what parts of your view are dirty.
If the whole thing is dirty,
you can just call HIView
set needs display,
pass the view, pass true.
Marks the whole thing
as needing repainting,
and the whole thing is not.
Marks the whole thing
as needing repainting,
and the whole thing will
get repainted later.
But if you know just some
subpart needs to get redrawn,
you can use an API like HIView
set needs display in rectangle.
And there's a couple other
variants of that API,
so you've got more fine-grained control.
The next step is to switch your
view over to draw with Quartz.
You pretty much have to draw
with Quartz in compositing mode.
Now, that's not literally true,
but that's really the
recommended solution,
and it's the only way you're going to be
able to get the free resolution--well,
I can't say free--the low-cost
resolution independent support,
which I'll talk about later.
But the key here is that you only draw
on a K-Event controlled draw handler,
like I mentioned before.
And that event comes with the
core graphics context ref that
you're supposed to draw with.
Don't try to manufacture
one for the Windows port.
It won't be clipped right.
It won't necessarily
be transformed right.
Just use the one in the event.
It's there for a reason.
Draw with it.
Once you've done that,
you can start leveraging whatever
Quartz features you want.
You know,
start taking advantage of setting
the transparency on the context.
Use Bezier.
Use whatever you want.
But the key to remember is never erase.
Only draw.
You can count on the fact that
the HIView subsystem has painted
the views behind you already.
That's already taken care of.
And if you want to make a view that
is aqua-compliant and aqua-savvy,
we have a bunch of HIView subsystems
that are already painted on the screen.
And if you want to make a view that
is aqua-compliant and aqua-savvy,
we have a bunch of HITHeme drawing
primitives which are designed
to be used with core graphics
or with a core graphics context.
You can take a look in
HIToolbox/HITHeme.h for a
bunch of different ways to
draw the standard button looks,
the standard tabs looks,
and things like that.
So that's step four.
The next step is maybe
the most gratifying step,
because it lets you toss out all
kinds of code from your application.
That's switching to
runApplicationEventLoop.
So over the course of time,
you put the standard window
handler on your various windows,
you switch them over to compositing mode,
and you finally just
finish the last window.
So now you look at your
waitNextEventLoop and you say,
wow,
this isn't doing a whole heck of a lot.
I'm tracking the menus here,
and I'm calling aeprocessAppleEvent,
and that's about it.
Well, runApplicationEventLoop can
do that for you and allow for
more future growth as well.
So take your waitNextEventLoop,
toss it away,
put runApplicationEventLoop in its place.
Now one thing that waitNextEvent
also did that a lot of you rely
on is give you periodic idle time.
The problem with doing that through
waitNextEvent is you had to sort of
centralize your notion of idle time,
and your objects had to
communicate with waitNextEvent.
You had to find the smallest time
slice that was needed by any given
object that wanted to animate it.
It was just a big mess.
So instead,
we recommend using CarbonEventTimers.
CarbonEventTimers are an easy way
to get either periodic processing
or like one-shot deferred
processing off in the future.
And it allows you to encapsulate
all of your code with an animating
view right there in that view.
That view doesn't need to know it's
operating under waitNextEvent or
runApplicationEventLoop or whatever.
Similarly,
WaitNextEvent also allows you to detect
mouse movement based on a region.
Well, again,
that had the same kinds of problems.
Your views that wanted to
communicate with WaitNextEvent had
to know WaitNextEvent was there.
You had to figure out the minimal region,
and it was just a big mess.
So instead, a couple of releases ago,
or maybe last release,
we gave you tracking areas,
mouse tracking areas.
And these tracking areas are designed to
manage a window-relative mouse region,
and you'd get informed of enters
and exits into that region.
So it's a very handy way
of doing something like
rollover or cursor changes.
So once you've switched over
to RunApplicationEventLoop,
the thing you need to realize
is that RunApplicationEventLoop
will not return until it's quit.
And the way you quit it is
with QuitApplicationEventLoop.
So you put that in an appropriate
place in your application,
probably like your QuitAppleEvent
handler or something.
And if you have various places in your
app where you call modal dialog or you
call waitNextEvent in the fashion where
you're trying to simulate modality,
the way you would do that now is
with RunAppModalLoop for window.
You can pass that API a window.
It will make the window
automatically modal.
And it quits similarly to
RunApplicationEventLoop.
You just call
QuitAppModalLoop for window.
So that's all five steps.
Once you take advantage of that,
you should be able to
transfer your application so
it looks something like this.
Really make it modern,
really make it great,
start taking advantage of
other new Toolbox features,
and be prepared for the future.
The future might be something
like Resolution Independence.
Hey, speaking of that.
So,
Resolution Independence is kind of a big,
big subject.
So let me see if I can
explain better with a demo.
It's very visual,
so that should do the trick.
So maybe I should give a
little bit of background about
resolution independence first.
So we don't really have
high DPI hardware yet.
We know that the industry is moving
that way over the next couple years.
And we'd much rather have applications
that are going to be ready for that
hardware when it becomes available.
So we don't want you waiting to start
thinking about resolution independence
until after the hardware shows up.
We all know the hardware is
eventually going to show up.
So let's start thinking
about these topics now.
Start considering how you can
adopt resolution independence
in your application.
All right.
So I've got this app.
It's called Resolution Modes.
Right now, it looks pretty normal.
These are three windows.
The windows are basically identical,
except for one slight change I made
to each of them in Interface Builder.
So that's how they look now,
but if you launch Quartz Debug
and you go up to the Tools menu,
there's a new item called
Show User Interface Resolution,
which gives you a little
slider with a multiplier on it.
If you change the value on this slider,
it multiplies the resolution
that apps will run in.
So if I move it up to 1.25,
relaunch my resolution modes application,
you can see that the windows
got a little bit bigger.
But you don't have to stop at 1.25.
I'm actually going to
go really high here.
So you can see it a little bit better.
OK, so this window,
which is titled Magnified--
let me see if I can get these
other windows out of the way.
This magnified window has
not been modified at all.
In fact, this application's core event
processing has not been modified at all.
And this is the result.
Sure, you get a bigger window,
but it looks a little grainy, right?
I don't know if you can
see it on the big screen,
but the magnified text
is a little blurry.
It certainly looks like
it's been blown up.
Well,
that's because it has been blown up.
Magnified mode is what you will
get by default for any non-savvy
window in your application.
How we do this is we
tell the Windows server,
look, this is a window that doesn't know
it's in resolution independence,
or that it's under a scale factor.
So please blow it up for me.
Your Windows backing
store is still very small.
So when we blow it up bigger,
you get kind of grainy.
Now, there are two resolution-independent
savvy modes you can set on a window.
First one I want to talk about
is Framework Scaled Mode.
Now, obviously,
this window looks a lot better.
You can see the text in the
text area is a lot crisper.
The picture still looks kind of crummy,
but where are we?
Can I not switch?
Oh, we have bad things happening.
Oh, we have really bad things happening.
All right.
Cool.
All right, I've got to reboot the
machine from back here.
And I can't get to the front.
Alright, well, strictly speaking,
the demos are not necessary,
so I'll just, uh...
I'll just cover more detail here,
I guess.
So Magnified Mode.
Magnified Mode is the fallback case.
This isn't really what you want to
have your application look like,
but it'll work in a pinch.
It'll allow users to get something
reasonable with your application,
even if your application has not
revved for resolution independence.
Like I showed, it looks kind of crummy,
particularly compared to the other mode,
but it doesn't take any
effort on your part.
Now, unfortunately,
I didn't actually get to show this,
but David's going to
try to troubleshoot it,
so maybe I can.
The next mode is Application Scaled Mode.
This mode is not the
second window I showed.
It was that little
small one that came up.
Application Scaled Mode is a
mode where you do all the work.
Well, you do most of the work.
The benefit of Application Scaled
Mode is that you can actually
use Quick Draw in that mode,
unlike the third mode.
So when you specify you want your window
to work in Application Scaled Mode,
you're responsible for making
all parts of that window bigger,
except subcomponents of
things driven by the toolbox.
So if we can get this back up,
I can show you what I mean.
The Application Scaled Mode window
was still at the same size as it
was when the scale factor was 1.0,
but the title bar was
a little bit bigger.
Well, the title bar was bigger because
it's handled by the system,
and we know to apply the
appropriate multiplier to it.
And another thing you could
have seen there is that the
text was a little bit bigger.
We know the system font,
when somebody requests the system font,
isn't just 13 pixels tall anymore.
It's 13 times some multiplier tall,
so we made it bigger.
But the problem was,
all the views inside that
window that the application put
there were still the same size,
and that's because that
app hadn't modified yet.
An application that uses
Application Scaled Mode on its
windows is responsible for sizing the
window content area bigger as well,
and then you resize all
the views inside of it.
This is the price you have
to pay for using Quick Draw.
Now, we really would prefer
you to not use Quick Draw.
If you can just switch over to HIV,
switch over to drawing with Quartz,
you can take advantage
of Framework Scaled Mode.
Cool thing about Framework Scaled
Mode is you get a really good appearance,
and it's really, really easy to do.
The second window that showed
up there that I was comparing
the magnified window to,
that was an Application Scaled Mode.
The only change I made to that window
relative to the magnified mode is I went
into Interface Builder and changed
the value in a pop-up menu to say,
"Please Framework Scale this,"
and you get all the rest for free.
Events still get routed right.
So speaking of event routing,
this is something I need
to show off there.
That was one application,
had three windows,
and each of those windows
was in a different mode.
Now, we don't necessarily know how that
application is getting events.
It might be in a wait-next-event loop,
it might be in
run-application-event loop,
who knows?
It may be savvy, it may not.
So what we have to do is,
since by default we magnify windows,
we need to make sure that all global
coordinates that come through APIs,
that get passed into APIs,
and that come out of structures
like an event record,
all map to the coordinate space
that a magnified window uses.
So essentially what we do is we
magnify all the coordinates that
come out of those sorts of APIs.
Now, this is still a little bit
of work in progress here,
and I've got another slide
that talks about this,
but what we're going to try to do
is make it so that APIs that talk
specifically about a window that we know
is either in application scaled mode
or framework scaled mode can be used
with coordinates that are not magnified.
So we're going to do
as best we can there.
So really,
my point here is that these coordinates
may be coming back in a way that at first
feels a little counterintuitive to you,
but it'll make sense eventually.
And we have a bunch of APIs that
can help you convert points from the
sort of magnified sense of global
to the true pixel sense of global.
Okay, so to turn on resolution
independence for your application,
start with a window.
Go into Interface Builder.
There's now a little pop-up
menu there that says Scale Mode,
I think.
It's got three choices: Magnified,
App Scaled, and Framework Scaled.
If you can't use the pop-up
menu and you need to create
your windows programmatically,
we've got creation attributes for those,
of course.
Once you do that,
your application may or may not
want to take advantage of that
knowledge inside your code.
Obviously,
if you're in application scaled mode,
you have to take advantage of
that knowledge because you're
required to do a bunch of work.
So you can determine a window's
scale mode at runtime by
calling hiwindow.getScaleMode.
It passes back whether or not the
window is running in app scaled mode or
framework scaled mode or magnified mode.
And additionally,
it hands back the scale factor in case
you need to do multiplication to figure
out an appropriate size for a view.
But if you want the user
scale factor without a window,
we also have a convenience API for that.
And like I mentioned before,
we have a whole bunch of coordinate
conversion APIs in HIGeometry.h,
which were originally intended for
use with resolution independence.
But they actually end up being
really cool because they allow you
to do things like translate between
a view and window coordinates,
or a view's coordinates in
one window with a view's
coordinates in another window,
which in rare circumstances
might prove useful.
But I found a couple of cool
things to do with those.
Oh, the other cool thing about these
conversion APIs is up until now,
the toolbox didn't have a great way,
like a one-stop shopping way,
to take a global coordinate and
convert it to a window coordinate.
Most of the time,
I think we recommended people
convert that point to the
window's port coordinates,
and then you can call QD local
to global and stuff like that.
It was a little bit nasty.
So now this set of APIs can
also achieve that for you.
So hang on.
Is it good?
Bad?
Bad.
Okay.
All right, so first thing to realize,
and the demo would have
shown this as well,
is resolution independence for
Tiger is a work in progress.
It's intended as a
developer-only feature.
You should not ship your applications
with this stuff turned on.
Things could even change, right?
We're not done developing and
engineering it internally,
so we could have a few new
paradigms here and there.
We just don't know yet.
The least ready mode is
application scale mode,
right?
I did magnified mode first,
and that was really easy to do.
And then we did framework scale mode,
and that was pretty easy to do.
Application scale mode is taking a lot
more change throughout the Toolbox,
so we'll get there.
But it's not quite ready for
prime time on the Tiger seat.
But still, I encourage you to try it out.
You'll see very obvious visual artifacts.
Just blame the Toolbox,
keep moving forward,
see if you can continue exercising
the APIs and developing on it.
But probably the coolest thing here is,
unlike previous WWDCs where we've given
you this little window of time saying,
"Please give us your feedback," like,
in the next two days
so we can implement it.
This, because it's not going to
be a user feature for Tiger,
we actually have a little bit window,
a little bit bigger window of
opportunity to hear your feedback.
And this is really important,
because there's a huge variety
of applications out there,
particularly the ones that are going
to need to use Application Scale mode.
And I need to hear from you what sort of
things we could do with convenience APIs,
what extra support you could need.
You know, maybe you need a few
new APIs to help with,
you know, blowing up your--blowing up a
window after you instantiate it
from a nib or something like that.
So please, try this stuff out.
Start making a little brainstorm list of
things we might be able to do for you.
Write bugs,
contact us on the mailing list.
I want to hear your feedback.
We also have a document referenced
by our HIToolbox release
notes on your developer seed,
which is Carbon Resolution
Independence Notes.
It takes advantage of some knowledge
that's also in a sort of overarching
resolution independence document
that's also in the release notes.
So I encourage you to read both of those.
It's going to go into more detail.
In fact,
it'll cover some of the stuff I would
have been able to cover in the demo.
So please check that out.
All right, so the rest of our time,
we've been doing things
that you've asked us for.
We pay attention to the mailing list.
Obviously, we have Eric the Android on
the Carbon development list,
responding to messages as soon as he can.
And we hear what you ask for.
And we've done a few of
those things for Tiger.
The first thing,
which I think is the coolest,
is that we actually now have text
notifications that you can get one-stop
shopping knowledge whenever a text
in one of our Unicode fields changes.
Doesn't matter if it was pasted in.
Doesn't matter if it was typed in,
doesn't matter if there's inline input,
who cares?
You just get this notification.
Similarly, there's the text should change
in range event that's sent out so
you can have one-stop filtering.
You can filter the text,
you can change it, block it,
whatever you want, doesn't matter how the
text was put in there,
you can do it.
And we send this to all of
our Unicode-based edit fields.
It doesn't work with the old text edit,
or edit text control,
but everything more modern than that.
The search field, the combo box,
the HITextView, the Unicode edit field,
works with all of those.
But there's a catch.
That's not really a big catch.
That's probably a
little too scary to say.
On the seed, it doesn't quite work
right for a few edge cases.
So while I encourage you to try this out,
please, you know, start switching your
applications over to it.
Take a look at the release notes,
see those couple edge cases
where we know there's a problem,
and, you know,
it'll save you time from having
to write the bug and we'll say,
"Oh, no, no, we already fixed this,
we already know about it." So just take
a look and see what those edge cases are.
But other than that,
I encourage you to adopt
this as soon as possible.
Now we also expanded
the set of HIView APIs.
Our first set wasn't really complete.
I mean, it was functionally complete
because you could always rely on
the control manager equivalence.
But what we did is we put together a
whole new--another set of HIView APIs to
sort of fill in all those missing holes.
Well, all but one percent of those holes.
But still,
we've got APIs like HIViewSetValue,
HIViewCountSubViews.
So your code is a lot more readable.
And in addition,
we took the chance to modernize
a few of the APIs so that,
you know,
there was some clunky mechanisms
in the control manager side.
We smoothed those over in
the HIView equivalence.
The coolest part about this though is
that we had a big request to give back
latent state information about our views.
I'm sure some of you have switched
on compositing mode and you have an
invisible window and you have a view
that you just called HIViewSetVisible.
True, you know it's visible.
It's definitely logically visible.
But if you called HIViewIsVisible,
you get back false.
Well,
that's because the compositing subsystem
tells you a view's physical visibility,
not its logical visibility.
So now we return the latent states.
We have a new API to deal
with the latent visibility.
We had to do a new API for that one
because we already had HIViewIsVisible,
which obviously just returned
the physical visibility.
But we added two new HIViewIsActive
and HIViewIsEnabled APIs,
which tell you the physical
enabled and active state as
well as the latent states.
So it should make dealing with some
of your edge cases a lot better.
We also had a request for more
fine-grained control over exactly
which windows in your application
were supported by Expose.
So we have the HI Window Get and
Set Availability APIs that allow
you to control whether or not a
window gets handled by Expose.
Now, I know I mentioned
tracking areas already.
And I'm sure some of you were thinking,
yeah, yeah, right, tracking areas.
They're a big pain.
I try to use them with my HIViews.
But HIViews are parent relative.
And when they move,
I don't really know it.
And then I've got to
try to figure it out,
which means I have to
install hand event handlers.
Anyway, we know.
We know.
We've had to do it ourselves.
It really sucks.
So what we did is we made
HIView-based tracking areas.
Exact same concept,
very similar usage model,
except the tracking areas
are bound to a view.
Now, we know when a view moves
in a window relative space.
So we can automatically adjust the
tracking area for you automatically.
Automatically do it automatically?
Anyway.
So we send Carbon events directly
to the view whenever the mouse
moves in or out of that view.
So they're really easy to use.
Suggest you adopt these wherever you can.
They're a great way of doing
rollover or mouse tracking.
Other people that started
adopting compositing said,
"Compositing is great,
until I try to scroll a view greater
than the Quickdraw coordinate space?
That doesn't make any sense.
It's supposed to be quartz-based." Yeah,
yeah, I know.
The internals of the control manager used
to be based on Quickdraw coordinates,
even though we supported
this cool compositing mode.
And unfortunately, that was prevalent
throughout various events.
We sent events to views saying,
"Tell me your structure region." Well,
that's a Quickdraw region.
Quickdraw regions are inherently
limited to 16-bit integer coordinates.
It wasn't so good.
So what we did is we
came up with HISHAPE.
HISHAPE now has full integration
into the HIView subsystem.
You can now communicate region-type
concepts in a way that breaks the
16-bit Quickdraw limit of coordinates.
HISHAPE also allows us to
improve performance throughout
the HIView subsystem.
We don't need to do as many
translations back and forth from
Quickdraw coordinates anymore.
more.
So it's a boon there.
We also added a few
new accessibility APIs.
For those of you who got a chance
to see the accessibility sessions
and the voiceover sessions,
these should help out a lot.
We have a very easy way to add extra
attributes to an existing element,
like, say, a push button.
You want to give it a description,
you can use the
SetAuxiliaryAccessibilityAttribute
API to do that really easily.
In addition,
those of you who are implementing
accessibility for your own objects,
but you need to use the
standard roles and you want
the standard role descriptions,
we have a way that you can
query the standard role
description that the system uses.
We also have a way that you can
easily override the accessibility
hierarchy provided by an object.
This is kind of an edge case.
I bet most of you won't need to use it,
but if you do run into
one of those situations,
we have an API that can help out.
And finally,
one thing we realized when we
were working with Finder to
provide accessibility information
for their ListView is that,
you know, Data Browser is really great,
but-- and Data Browser's accessibility
implementation is really good too,
but we need to interject
some extra info in there,
right?
What is just a row in one
application might need to be called
something else in my application,
so I want to be able to customize
what Data Browser provides.
And so we have a set of
APIs that allow you to modify the
information sent out or passed into
Data Browser for any given element.
It's pretty cool.
Take a look at
controldefinitions.h for that.
In fact, let's see,
that was this morning.
Right,
so if you want more details on this,
see if you can travel back in time a
few hours and check out session 424.
We covered a lot of accessibility.
information there.
One thing we did to the toolbar to
kind of expand the possibilities for
what you can do is allow for per window
enabling and disabling of toolbar items,
as well as selection of toolbar items.
So what I mean is you can have two
windows that use the same toolbar object,
you know,
they both bind to the same toolbar,
but you want,
let's say you want the delete button
in the toolbar to be enabled in
one window but not in the other.
Well, up to now,
there wasn't really a way to do that.
What you ended up having to do is create
two different toolbar instances for each,
or one for each window,
and that was kind of a pain.
So we built in per window selection
enabling and disabling support.
Now the cool thing is that
the Toolbar can manage the
selection for you automatically.
All you need to do is have
your Toolbar delegate respond
to a Carbon event that says,
"Hey, tell me the selectable items."
If you respond to that,
the Toolbar can manage
it for you automatically.
It'll just track the selection,
change the selection,
send out a Carbon event when that
selection change has happened that
you can listen to if you need to.
There's lots of other stuff that
I just don't have time to cover today,
though since my demos crashed,
I could probably talk about stuff.
Let's see.
Let's see what I can do here.
HIobject archiving.
I don't think this is actually turned on.
Is that true?
Yeah, unfortunately,
there is a runtime problem.
We couldn't actually turn this on.
But essentially what
HIobject archiving is,
it's a way to take any HIobject,
which means a window or a control,
and say, hey,
flatten yourself out to a stream.
I want to write you someplace.
And it grabs all the
information from those views.
And you can hook into this.
This is achieved through new
Carbon events that get sent to
views in Windows or any HIobject,
really.
And you can hook in and provide your
own data into this flattened stream.
So you can store it out
wherever you need to.
We also expanded the hotkey APIs.
Let's see,
some cool stuff for the ComboBox.
Ah, yeah, the ComboBox,
we were asked by you guys
for better control over when
the list is shown and hidden.
You know,
you want to programmatically invoke it
and not just have the user click on it.
So we gave you that.
There's an easy way to
make the list show up.
The search field,
we were seeing places in the
interface where people wanted
a search field with an icon on
both sides of the search field,
but they didn't want that left
icon to actually bring down a menu.
They just wanted it to act like a button.
So you can do that now
in the search field.
We added a bunch of new menu
glyphs to the menu manager so you
can support those if you want to.
Eric did a ton of work in Carbon to
kind of give us a lot better integration
between Carbon and Cocoa Windows.
If you've ever tried to integrate
them yourself or use system services
that did the integration for you,
like the color panel
or something like that,
you notice that sometimes there were
some activation problems and it wasn't
clear which text field was focused.
Well, we did a bunch of work in
that realm to clean it up.
And we did it by using
proper window levels.
So there are some things we changed
with respect to window levels.
I think we always used
to use window level zero.
And now we actually use the proper
window level so we can interact
with the Cocoa Windows better.
We cover this in the HIToolbox
release notes in detail.
I urge you to take a look at
it just in case there's any
compatibility concerns there.
But see if there's any of this new
functionality you can take advantage
of with the new APIs we offered.
We also sent out a couple
of new Carbon events as--.
I think it was sheets open and close,
I believe.
Is that right, sheets open and close?
I'm looking for Eric.
I don't see him.
Okay.
No.
No worries.
So like I said,
HIToolbox release notes are the key.
It goes into more detail about
everything I've talked about already,
as well as the stuff on
this slides and even more.
But there's three other
things I want to talk about.
These are sort of compatibility concerns.
These are changes we made to
Tiger that may affect your ways--your
application in ways that you
don't exactly anticipate right now.
The first change was to support
resolution independence.
I don't know if you can remember,
but the machine before it crashed
had a bigger menu bar when
I increased the scale factor.
Well, that was achieved by switching
the menu manager over to using a
compositing window for the menu bar.
Now, since it's a regular
old compositing window,
this window is going to
show up in the window list.
So if you're calling APIs like
getWindowList or getFrontWindowOfClass,
the all classes constant,
you're going to get the menu bar window.
So you got to be prepared to expect that.
But better yet,
don't use either of those APIs.
We don't prefer those anyway.
What you really want to use
is active non-floating window.
That generally gives you the
front most document window,
which is what you want nine
times out of ten anyway.
Another change we made is we
brought the user pane control
sort of up into the HIV space,
so at least it can be
used as a grouping view,
but that required a few changes.
One of the changes we had to
make is we no longer store its
private--did I say private?
Private, that's stuff internal to Apple,
instance data in the
controls data handle.
We found a few applications out
there that access that data,
or at least query it,
and we had to do some weird
workarounds to make those
applications continue to work.
So, don't ever access the private
data of a system control.
In fact,
don't ever access the private data of any
control you're not in charge of writing.
It's a bad idea,
and don't even to reference it.
Now the third change,
which is something we haven't made yet,
but it's something we're going
to do by the time Tiger ships.
There are some APIs like Event Avail,
Still Down, and Wait Mouse Up that
currently flush window buffers,
meaning you could do some drawing
in a window and then you could call
Event Avail and that drawing would
be flushed to the screen right away.
That's kind of convenient,
but it killed performance in many ways.
A lot of people use Event Avail
or Still Down as part of a
very tight mouse tracking loop.
And so any painting that happened was
either a visual inconvenience because
they didn't want it to happen or it
just slowed down that tracking loop,
which is kind of crummy.
So by the time Tiger ships,
we're going to make changes to
those three APIs such that they no
longer automatically flush window
buffers with the big parentheses,
which is only for applications
linked on Tiger and later.
So if you built your application
on Panther and you run it on Tiger,
those three APIs are still going
to flush the way they always have.
It's only if you link on
Tiger and then run on Tiger.
So if you find some
situations where suddenly,
wait, my window's not drawing,
I'm expecting it to draw,
what's going on?
It's probably because of this change.
Look to see if you rebuilt
for Tiger and surely that's
going to be what's going on.
So if you really depend on this behavior,
what I suggest doing is find
those tracking loops where you
depend on the behavior and make
manual calls to QD flush port
buffer or something like that,
and that'll get the
flushing behavior back.
But maybe a better solution is
to stop doing your own tracking
loops in those places where it is a
tracking loop and instead switch to
an API like track mouse location,
which does flush because
it's documented to flush.
So, what I want you guys to go do now,
well maybe not right now,
because I need to
attend the next session.
Install the seed.
Take a look at the toolbox release notes.
Start looking at the
new things we've added.
Start playing with HIV if
you haven't already.
Try switching on compositing
mode in the standard handlers
for some of your Windows.
You may actually find out that
it's a lot easier to adopt this
stuff than you may have thought.
Then take a look at the resolution
independence release notes.
There's a lot of cool info in there.
It's really fun to play with.
I mean, even if you don't start
developing for it right away,
turn it on, run your application,
see what looks good,
see what doesn't look good.
Start making lists of things
you might need from us,
from the toolbox.
And then maybe start fiddling
with it in your app and see
if you can't make it work.
It might actually end up
being easier than you thought,
particularly if you've adopted HIV.
Also start looking at
supporting accessibility.
If you're supporting HIV,
it's just a tiny additional little
step to support accessibility.
If you're in there and
you're modifying your nibs,
hey, by all means,
when we get support in IB for
adding extra attributes to widgets,
sorry, extra accessibility
attributes to widgets,
start throwing that information in there.
It's only going to do good.
And then take a look at all the
other Tiger features we've added
and see what you can do to make
your application look great.
So we've got a bunch of
information out there on the
web and in the release notes.
The top item here,
this upgrading to the Mac OS HIToolbox,
is one of the featured articles
on the developer Applecom website.
It's really, really good.
It's a great article.
It covers all kinds of aspects
of HIView and HIToolbox.
A little bit of older documentation
is introducing HIView.
It takes you through some of the basics.
If you need a little refresher course,
go check that out.
We have the reference
material for HISHape.
It's going to be critical to start
using HISHape once you become HIView,
because it's going to break
various quick draw limitations.
And finally, the release notes.
Did I say release notes enough?
So now I'd like to bring Xavier back
up and the rest of the Toolbox crew,
and we can go through some Q&A.